https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-6946 Updates after PM review (#5520)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/customize_observability.adoc

[#customizing-observability]
= Customizing observability
//will change to modular docs | MJ | 05/02/23
//would it be best to rename this topic? From Customizing observability to Configuring observability 
//Configure obseravbiility to customize the service
Review the following sections to learn more about customizing, managing, and viewing data that is collected by the observability service.

Collect logs about new information that is created for observability resources with the `must-gather` command. For more information, see the _Must-gather_ section in the _Troubleshooting documentation_.
//which of these topics should be moved to Using observability?
//Customize: modifications to the service

> //Configure: arrange or order the service task

Author: ```suggestion
//Configure: arrange or order the service task

```

[#customizing-observability]
= Customizing observability
//will change to modular docs | MJ | 05/02/23
//would it be best to rename this topic? From Customizing observability to Configuring observability 
//Configure obseravbiility to customize the service
Review the following sections to learn more about customizing, managing, and viewing data that is collected by the observability service.

Collect logs about new information that is created for observability resources with the `must-gather` command. For more information, see the _Must-gather_ section in the _Troubleshooting documentation_.

> //which of these topics should be moved to Using observability?

Author: ```suggestion
//I moved some topics to Using observability, need to confirm if changes make sense
```

  name: observability-metrics-custom-allowlist
data:
  metrics_list.yaml: |
    names: <1>
      - node_memory_MemTotal_bytes
    rules: <2>
    - record: apiserver_request_duration_seconds:histogram_quantile_90
      expr: histogram_quantile(0.90,sum(rate(apiserver_request_duration_seconds_bucket{job=\"apiserver\",
        verb!=\"WATCH\"}[5m])) by (verb,le))
----
+

> <1>  Add the name of the custom metrics that are to be collected from the managed cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
<1> *Optional:* Add the name of the custom metrics that are to be collected from the managed cluster.
```

> <1> In the `names` section, add the name of the custom metrics that is to be collected from the managed cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
<1>  Add the name of the custom metrics that are to be collected from the managed cluster.
```

> <2> In the `rules` section, enter only one value for the `expr` and `record` parameter pair to define the query expression. The metrics are collected as the name that is defined in the `record` parameter from your managed cluster. The metric value returned are the results after you run the query expression.

Author: ```suggestion
<2> *Optional:* Enter only one value for the `expr` and `record` parameter pair to define the query expression. The metrics are collected as the name that is defined in the `record` parameter from your managed cluster. The metric value returned are the results after you run the query expression.
```

+

> The `names` and `rules` sections are optional. You can use either one or both of the sections.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use either one or both of the sections.
```

+
For user workload metrics, see the _Adding user workload metrics_ section.

. Verify that data from your custom metric is being collected by querying the metric from the *Explore* page, from the Grafana dashboard. You can also use the custom metrics in your own dashboard.

[#adding-user-workload-metrics]
=== Adding user workload metrics

You can collect {ocp-short} user-defined metrics from workloads in {ocp-short}. You must enable monitoring on your {ocp-short} cluster. See _Enabling monitoring for user-defined projects_.

If you have a managed cluster with monitoring for user-defined workloads enabled, the user workloads are located in the `test` namespace and generate metrics. These metrics are collected by Prometheus from the {ocp-short} user workload.

> Add user workload metrics to the `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist` ConfigMape to collect the metrics in the `test` namespace. View the following example:

Author: ```suggestion
Add user workload metrics to the `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist` ConfigMap to collect the metrics in the `test` namespace. View the following example:
```

  name: observability-metrics-custom-allowlist
  namespace: test
data:
  uwl_metrics_list.yaml: <1>
    names: <2>
      - sample_metrics
----

> <1> The `uwl_metrics_list.yaml` is the key for the ConfigMap data.

Author: ```suggestion
<1> Enter the key for the ConfigMap data.
```

> <2> The value of the ConfigMap data is in YAML format. The `names` section includes the list of metric names, which you want to collect from the `test` namespace. After you create the ConfigMap, the specified metrics from the target namespace is collected by the observability collector and pushed to the hub cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
<2> Enter the value of the ConfigMap data in YAML format. The `names` section includes the list of metric names, which you want to collect from the `test` namespace. After you create the ConfigMap, the specified metrics from the target namespace is collected by the observability collector and pushed to the hub cluster.
```

      replicas: 3 
----

For descriptions of all the parameters that can added into the `advanced` configuration, see the _Observability API_ documentation.

[#dynamic-metrics-for-sno]
=== Dynamic metrics for single-node OpenShift clusters

> //recommend to remove this info and add reference link to the same section that is within the cluster lifecycle folder. | MJ | 09/29/23

Author: @subbarao-meduri can you remind me if Is this applicable for both MCE and ACM?

      annotations:
        description: >
          Collects the dynamic metrics specified if the cluster memory usage is constantly more than 70% for 2 minutes
      expr: (1 - sum(:node_memory_MemAvailable_bytes:sum) / sum(kube_node_status_allocatable{resource=\"memory\"})) * 100 > 70
      for: 2m
      dynamic_metrics:
        names:
          - kube_pod_container_resource_limits 
          - kube_pod_container_resource_requests 
          - namespace_workload_pod:kube_pod_owner:relabel
        matches:
          - __name__="container_memory_cache",container!=""
          - __name__="container_memory_rss",container!=""
          - __name__="container_memory_swap",container!=""
          - __name__="container_memory_working_set_bytes",container!=""
----

A `collect_rules.group` can be disabled in the `custom-allowlist` as shown in the following example. When a `collect_rules.group` is disabled, metrics collection reverts to the previous behavior. These metrics are collected at regularly, specified intervals:

[source,yaml]
----
collect_rules:
  - group: -SNOResourceUsage
---- 

The data is only displayed in Grafana when the rule is initiated.

[#updating-replicas]

> == Updating the MultiClusterObservability custom resource replicas from the console

Author: ```suggestion
== Updating the _MultiClusterObservability_ custom resource replicas from the console
```

      replicas: 3 
----

For descriptions of all the parameters that can added into the `advanced` configuration, see the _Observability API_ documentation.

[#dynamic-metrics-for-sno]
=== Dynamic metrics for single-node OpenShift clusters

> //recommend to remove this info and add reference link to the same section that is within the cluster lifecycle folder. | MJ | 09/29/23

Author: @subbarao-meduri

Reviewer: This must stay in the RHACM Observability section. It is only possible to do with RHACM and Observability.

Author: Updated
